---
title: "Creating Your First Application"
permalink: /averos/getting-started/create-your-application/
excerpt: "Create your application"
toc: true
---

## **III. Create your application**

### **III.1- Create a new angular application**

Creating a new angular application will require to install `@angular/cli`, so let us go ahead and install it :

```bash
npm i -g @angular/cli
```

 >**🚩 Note:**please refer to [**angular version compatibility**]({{"/averos/latest-version/#angular-compatibility" | relative_url}} "angular version compatibility") section, for further angular versions compatibility information support.
 {: .notice--danger}
 
Once the cli is installed, we can use the angular `ng new` schematics to initiate a new angular application:

```bash 
ng new my-averos-web-application --style=scss --routing --strict 
cd my-averos-web-application
```

>**🚩 Note:** Since Averos does not support other styling types, you should specify the `scss` styling type when creating a new angular application. Other styling types will not be likely supported in future releases.
{: .notice--danger}

### **III.2- Add Averos support to your project**

This will trigger an averos process that guide you through a set of user customizations including application name, default language, additional language...

   ```bash
    ng add @wiforge/averos 
   ```

>**🚩 Note:** Averos could be also installed via `npm install` but we recommand to use the `ng add` schematics in order to trigger the integration wizard.
{: .notice--warning}

The averos integration wizard, triggered via `ng add @wiforge/averos`, will take you through the following customizations details:

 - [x] your application name 
 - [x] Whether `authentication` is enabled or not
 - [x] the authentication provider if `authentication` is enabled. If you are willing to implement your own authentication provider then please refer to [**authentication provider reference**]({{"/averos/documentation/references-and-conventions/reference-authentication-provider/" | relative_url}} "Authentication Provider SetUp") section.
 - [x] your default application language (default to english)
 - [x] your additional application language (if you want to setup an additional language support)


 **CONGRATULATION! YOU ARE READY TO GO!** 🚀
 {: .notice--info}

### **III.3- Run your application** 

Your averos minimal application, with authentication and multi-language support is created.
Go ahead and run your application so that you can have a glimpse of the overall layout and basic features.

> **ProTip**: Running your application could either be through `ng serve` or by deploying it in a external application server such as `nginx` or `http-server` for testing purposes.
{: .notice--info}

#### **III.3.1- Deploy your application to http-server**

Executing the following command will allow you to deploy your application to the lightweight [**http-server**](https://github.com/http-party/http-server "http-server").


 ```bash
 npm install http-server && ng build && http-server -p 8080 -c-1 dist/my-averos-web-application
 ```

#### **III.3.2- Log into your application**

Open your favorite web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.


>🚩 Averos based applications have by default two domain spaces :
>- **public space**  : available for public anonymous users
>- **private space** : only available for logged users
{: .notice--info}


In order to log into your space you will need to register a new user by navigating to the register use case (upper right button). Just enter whatever fake informations in order to create your credentials.
Once registered, you can use your credential to log into your application.


##### **III.3.2.1- Averos private space**

When you navigate to the logged space, you will notice that there are no menu configured yet.<br/>
Being by default only available in logged spaces, averos menu are generated based on the entities use cases initiated by the user.  This means that since we have not created any custom entities along with its related use case, there will be no menu available in your application.

Once we will start adding entities and business logics to your application, the default menu will be created and updated accordingly.

##### **III.3.2.2- Averos public space**

Averos public space is available in order to allow anonymous users to access any public information that is meant to be shared in the application.
The application owner decides wether to restrict access to a specific component, page or use case or to fully disclose it.
If he chooses to make the use case accessible anonymously, averos gives him the ability to add a default menu link to that public component, to the default application menu by mean of the dedicated averos workflow command `create-page`. The menu link will be available in the application home page header as part of the default generated menu. 

>🚩 Averos menu could be easely configured in many ways.
Different configurations aspect are available to the end user in order to allow the finest customizations.
The configuration includes: 
>- adding, removing, updating or grouping menu items;
>- icon to display on the menu item/group,
>- the target link or route
>- the ability to configure external links like websites or external applications URLs.
>- the ability to disable a menu/submenu/menuItem
>- let the menu available in public spaces (at your own risk)
{: .notice--info}

📢 More on this topic is available in the [detailed averos documentation]({{"/averos/documentation/view-context/" | relative_url}} "averos view context").
{: .notice--warning}

While navigating through the application, you will mainly notice the following points:
- all of your **chosen languages are supported** and you can actually switch between them flawlessly.
- All the application components are **translated** to the requested languages (buttons, input placeholders, tooltips, labels, error messages, form validation messages, notification messages... )
- **login/logout** menu are pre-built but could be also customized by bringing your own components
- **pwa** support is obvious since we are still in the angular echosystem
- your application is **fully responsive** (check it by turning on the mobile preview in your browser devtools)
- **dark mode** is supported ( dark mode is supported, alternatively, averos styles could be easely overridden so that you can fully customize your application layout, but we recommand keeping the default layout for better stability)

> [Further]({{"/averos/getting-started/customize-your-app-business-requirements/" | relative_url }}  "Customize Your Application") in this guide   we are going to learn how to customize our application in order to meet our business requirements by adding use cases, actions, translation capabilities, view layouts and much more.
{: .notice--success}

**[⬆ Back to Top](#iii-create-your-application)**
