---
title: "Core Module Description"
permalink: /averos/documentation/core-module-description/
excerpt: "Core Module Description"
toc: false
classes: wide
---

The **averos Core module** is the main averos framework component that acts as a root module which should be imported in order to leverage all the averos framework benefits and capabilities.<br/>

Importing the core module will activate all the framework capabilities including:
- averos application, 
- averos view, 
- generic customizable menu, 
- generic use cases view, 
- form generation, 
- customizable validators, 
- pre-built views, 
- averos translation, 
- application optimizations 
- and much more.<br/>

Averos core module comes with a set of bootstrap configurations that are meant to define specific environment values when running the application. <br/>
All core module configurations are held in the **`FrameworkConfiguration`** interface and mainly includes the list of _**supported languages**_.<br/>
_**Supported languages**_ configuration, on the other hand, will bootstrup the target supported languages list into the application by providing further configurations in order to fully support those languages.<br/>

You might also execute the following command in order to initialize a new web application and include all the featues above:

```bash
ng add @wiforge/averos
```

>â„¹ï¸ **Example:**
```shell
ng add @wiforge/averos --application-name=MyAverosApplication --enable-authentication --authentication-provider=custom --default-language-code=en
```
Few things are to be noticed here: 
-   `--enable-authentication` : this parameter enables authentication (default to `averos authentication`)
-   `--authentication-provider` : this parameter sets up an authentication provider for your application.
-   `--default-language-code` : this parameter configures a default language to your application
The user may use `ng add @wiforge/averos` interactively. In this case the workflow will guide the user through all of the available parameters.
{: .notice--success}

>ðŸ”– Note that, the averos workflow  `ng add @wiforge/averos` is considered as your starting point and will include the averos core module into your application, automatically activating all the averos aspects mentioned above.
{: .notice--info}

