---
title: "Averos Config"
permalink: /averos/documentation/averos-config/
excerpt: "Averos Config"
toc: false
classes: wide
---

While working with **averos**, additional environment parameters could be included depending on the business implementation logic. <br/>
For instance, _**back ends URLs**_ could be created and customized as needed to the extent of setting up mulitple back end urls. <br/>
The core module customization capability opens the door to an extreme resilience and modularity when working with averos framework. <br/>
One, for example, can configure multiple API back ends in a microservice architecture layout bringing about seperation of concerns, modularity and more flexibility. <br/>

**AverosConfig** sets the back end url beforehand through the entity member **beURL** which puts cloud readiness in close sight.<br/>
**AverosConfig** declares a list of supported languages as well. This list could be updated either manually or using the averos translation workflows `ng g @wiforge/averos:add-language`. <br/>


The list of environments variables is not fully exhaustive and could be updated as needed. 

```typescript
export class AverosConfig {
                  
        beURL?: string ;
        supportedLanguages?: string[];
}
```

-   _**beURL**_:  refers to the back end REST API that is responsible of:
    - Handling users (search, create, delete, update)
    - Handling application authentication logic (users, passwords, tokens, login, roles…)
    These business logic could be bypassed if needed by simply developing a custom user’s authentication handler API and configuring the api URL in the beURL variable.
-   _**supportedLanguages**_: refers to the list of supported languages. This list could be updated as needed using the available averos translation workflow.

