---
title: "Authentication Provider"
permalink: /averos/documentation/authentication-provider/
excerpt: "Authentication Provider"
toc: true
#classes: wide
---


# **1. Description**

Usually, sensative and personal data shoud not be accessible for unknown users.
Accessing such data requires the user to be authenticated via at least one trusted authentication provider. <br/>
Additional security layers such as access tokens or refresh tokens should also be considered when dealing with authentication and authorization. <br/>
A lot of authentication providers exist out of the market such as, [**Auth0**]({{"https://auth0.com/" | relative_url}} "Auth0"), [**Firebase Auth**]({{"https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth" | relative_url}} "Firebase Auth"), [**Clerk**]({{"https://clerk.com/" | relative_url}} "Clerk Authentication and user management"), [**KeyCloak**]({{"https://www.keycloak.org/" | relative_url}} "KeyCloak"), [**Amazon Cognito**]({{"https://aws.amazon.com/cognito/" | relative_url}} "Amazon Cognito") to name a few. <br/>
Just like any application, averos applications could include an authentication layer that relies on an authentication provider. <br/>
The current averos framework version is built on top of **Averos auth provider**, which is defined as a custom authentication and authorization api that was built around **`jwt`**, **`access tokens`** and **`refresh tokens`**.


# **2. Averos Authentication Provider**

Averos comes with a built-in **authentication provider** based on [jwt](https://jwt.io "JSON Web Token"). <br/>
`Averos Authentication Provider` is composed of an `authentication` and `authorization` apis based on **`access tokens`** and **`refresh tokens`** implementations; along with a `User Management` api that manages **`Users`** and **`Roles`**. <br/>
**`Averos Authentication Provider`** is currently used as the **authentication provider** for [**Wibuild application**](https://appbuilder.wiforge.com/ "Wibuild") and will be soon available for everyone as a service.

# **3. Custom Authentication Provider**

The current averos version does not support generating applications without an authentication provider.
So, since an averos application needs an authentication provider, you may want to implement one according to the specifications mentioned [**here**]({{"/averos/documentation/references-and-conventions/reference-authentication-provider/" | relative_url}} "averos authentication specifications"). <br/>
Also, in order to link your application to your service provider, you may want to create an `averos service configuration`.<br/>
**Averos** offers a built-in **authentication service** that you may want to bind with your **custom authentication api** location attributes such as server location, port or uri. <br/>
Binding an averos service to its related api implies the creation of a specific `averos configuration`. <br/> 
This configuration should match an **`id`** whose value is equal to **`AuthService`** which stands for the **name** of the custom built-in **averos service** that is in charge of **authenticating**, **authorizing** and **managing** averos users.<br/>
Below is an `averos workflow command` template that should create such a configuration.
```js
ng g @wiforge/averos:averos-config --id=AuthService --type=service --host=[your-auth-server-address] --port=[our-auth-server-port] --protocol=[our-auth-server-protocol] --endpoint=[your-auth-api-uri]
```

>🚩 Note that, future **averos** version may include support for known authentication providers such as **`Auth0`**, **`Amazon Cognito`** or **`Firebase Auth`**
{: .notice--success}

