---
title: "Averos Translation Module - Description"
permalink: /averos/documentation/averos-translation/description/
excerpt: "Averos Translation Module"
toc: false
# classes: wide
---

## Description

In order to prepare your application to be usable in different locales around the world, **Averos framework** comes with an **internationalization(i18n)** and **localization** module, named **`AverosTranslationModule`**, that is already supporting **11** languages out of the box and can include any other language just by executing **averos translation workflows** for additional languages support.<br/>

Below are the list of the languages that averos supports out of the box along with their codes: <br/>

| **Supported Language** | **Language Code** |
| ------ | ------ | 
| Arabic     [ 🇹🇳 ] | `ar` |
| Chinese    [ 🇨🇳 ] | `cn` |
| English    [ 🇺🇸 ] | `en` |
| Spanish    [ 🇪🇸 ] | `es` |
| French     [ 🇫🇷 ] | `fr` |
| German     [ 🇩🇪 ] | `de` |
| Japanese   [ 🇯🇵 ] | `jp` |
| Dutch      [ 🇳🇱 ] | `nl` |
| Norwegian  [ 🇳🇴 ] | `no` |
| Russian    [ 🇷🇺 ] | `ru` |
| Swedish    [ 🇸🇪 ] | `se` |

>🚩 Since **Averos translation module** is built on top of **`@angular/localize`** module, it leverage all the capabilities that are offered by the latter and obviously extends them. 
{: .notice--info}

>🚩 **ProTip** : Whenever you see **`translationID`**, you could be sure that this identifier refers to a locale ID.
{: .notice--success}

Except content data, everything that is related to the application- including all angular components- is subject to translation.<br/>

Here is what could be subject to translation translatable with **averos Translation**:
  - menus
  - labels (ex. forms, fields, actions)
  - input placeholder (input field, form)
  - validation messages
  - fixed sets of values: enumerations (ex. list items)
  - dynamic set of values: value domains (ex.list items)
  - notification messages (ex. alerts, dialog messages)
  - tooltips
  
>🚩 **Note** that when you import **`AverosCoreModule`** you are by default using **Averos Transmation Module**.<br/>
However, if you only wish to integrate this module and leverage its i18n capabilities within any angular application you should import it into your main application module.
{: .notice--danger}
