---
title: "Translation Methods"
permalink: /averos/documentation/averos-translation/translation-methods/
excerpt: "Translation Methods"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
# classes: wide
---

## 1. Overview

Averos translation could happen either in `typescript components` or in `templates`.<br/>
Translation could be achieved in **three ways**:
-	**`Static Template Translation`** (i18n / i18n-placeholder attributes)
-	**`Dynamic Template Translation`** (translate pipe)
-	**`Dynamic Translation`** ($localize)

>🚩 A `json` translation file should be available for the target locale so that the locale ids could be available to the framework. If not, a default value will be used for translation instead.
{: .notice--danger}

## 2. Static Template Translation - `i18n / i18n-placeholder` attributes

Static Template Translation happens in `templates` and occurs when either `i18n` or `i18n-placeholder ` `angular/locale` related attributes are used in the component's templates. <br/>
A locale identifier referring to a record in the `json` translation configuration file will be used in order to bring the right translation property. <br/>

Below is an example of `i18n` usage:

**json translation configuration:**
```json
{
"user.userName": "nom d'utilisateur"
}
```

**Static Template Translation usage:**

```typescript
<mat-label i18n="@@user.userName">UserName</mat-label>
```

>🚩 Notice the use of **`i18n`** attribute along with the locale id `user.userName`.
{: .notice--info}

Component’s placeholders could also be translated using the attribute `i18n-placeholder` along with a translation id referring to a `json` translation configuration record.<br/>

>🚩 The component's `placeholder` attribute, though, should be present along with the `i18n-placeholder` attribute for the translation to be performed. Otherwise, in case one of the two attributes is missing, no translation will be performed.
{: .notice--danger}

usage example:

```typescript
<input matInput i18n-placeholder="@@user.userName" placeholder="UserName" formControlName="userName" required>

<textarea i18n-placeholder="@@user.address.placeholder" placeholder="Your Address" matInput  formControlName="address" maxlength="100" required></textarea>
```

>🚩 In the examples above, notice how `i18n-placeholder` and `placeholder` are both included.
{: .notice--danger}


## 3. Dynamic Template Translation - averos `translate` pipe 

**Averos framework** have included a new pipe called **`translate`** which could be used in `templates` in order to translate **dynamic variables**. <br/>

The `translate` pipe accepts two inputs, a `key_TobeTranslated` and a `translationID`, and returns a localized string. <br/>

>Note that `translationID` is **optional** and could be therefore `undefined`.

Avers `translate` pipe could be applied to both template values and attributes. Below are example of usages for both types:

**`translate` applied to template values:**

```typescript
<mat-label>
 	{{label | translate: labelTranslationID}}
</mat-label>

<mat-option *ngFor="let gender of genders" [value]="gender.name">
    {{ gender.name | translate: gender.translationID }}
</mat-option>
```

<br/>

**`translate` applied to template attributes:**

`placeholder` attribute:
```typescript
<textarea matInput [placeholder]="placeholderTranslationID | translate: placeholderTranslationID" </textarea>
```

`tooltip` attribute:

```typescript
 <button mat-icon-button [matTooltip]="'search'| translate: 'app.search'"> </button>
```

## 3. Component's Dynamic Translation - `$localize` / `translate()`

This type of translation is used only in `typescript components`.<br/>
It uses either the angular `$localize` tag, available in the `@angular/localize` package, or the `translate()` utility introduced by averos. <br/>

Angular `$localize` tag supports only **fixed locale ids** (translationIDs).<br/>

If you would like to apply translations to **dynamic locale ids** then you need to use the averos `translate()` utility. <br/>

## 3.1. Fixed Locale IDs - Locale Parameters

`$localize` could only be used with `fixed translation IDs`. <br/>
It is also possible to include `translation parameters` for further customizations.<br/>

Let's assume that we have the following translationID configuration:

```json
{
"user.logged.message": "Welcome {$userName} !",
}
```
The translationID refers to a user welcome message.<br/>
`$userName` is a translation parameter that is equal to whatever `userName` value.<br/>

The translation occurs in the component as described below:

```typescript
let welcomeMessage = $localize`:@@user.logged.message:Welcome ${this.authenticationService.getCurrentloggedUser()}:userName:!`
```

## 3.1. Dynamic Locale IDs

Since `$localize` does not support **dynamic translation IDs**, **averos** has introduced an utility, located in `@averos-shared/utils/translate`, that enhance `$localize` tag capabilities by adding **dynamic translation ID** support. <br/>

When you don't know the value of a `translationID`, it is absolutely fine to use `@averos-shared/utils/translate` on its `translationID` references.

usage example:
```typescript
const validationMessage = translate(validatorMetaData.validationDefaultMessage, validatorMetaData.validationMessageTranslationID);
```

