---
title: "Creating Your First Application"
permalink: /docs/1.1.8/first-application-overview/
excerpt: "Creating your first application"
toc: false
classes: wide
---


## **I. Overview**
Creating an angular based web application with averos is only 3 steps away:

- [x] **Create** a regular angular application
- [x] **Add** **Averos** framework
- [x] **Build**, package and run your application

On the other hand, customizing your application by adding your entities and their related business use cases will require further design steps. Those design steps are tightly coupled to the user requirements and application specifications. Those additional steps are:
- [x] **Design** your entities, interactions and use cases
- [x] **Integrate** your design within averos. A set of prebuilt use cases could be generated with the help of averos use case command line workflow (further details below).
- [x] **Customize** your application by adding specific business requirements and rules. 

This tutorial will guide you, step by step, through the whole **averos framework** web application creation process while discovering main averos aspect and capabilities.
It could seen as a guide given that most of the basic **averos** capabilities were fully described in the  [**reference**](#reference "Reference") section further below.

By the end of this guide, you will be able to leverage of all the basic capabilities of **averos** to barge your way into the creation of cutting edge web applications in no time.  

🚩 Please note that an averos starter kit, showcasing all the steps achieved in this tutorial is available in the [averos-io starter kit](https://github.com/averos-io/averos-io-starter "averos-io starter kit") github project. 
{: .notice--info}

Besides, for any further issues, suggestions or enhancements related to the averos framework, please use the following placeholders:
- **Issues**: [here ✏️](https://github.com/averos-io/averos-io-starter/issues "averos-io-starter github issues placeholder")  
- **Questions** related to the averos framework: [here 🙋](https://github.com/averos-io/averos-io-starter/discussions/5 "Questions")
- **Suggestions, requests or ideas**: [here 💡](https://github.com/averos-io/averos-io-starter/discussions/7 "Suggestions, Requests, New Ideas")
