---
title: "Learn New Languages"
permalink: /docs/1.1.8/11.1-customize-your-app-i18n-workflows/
excerpt: "Let your application speaks languages"
toc: true
---

Now your application is almost ready, what if you take it to the next level and let it speak multiple languages so that you can target a wider audience ?

If this sounds brilliant to you then go ahead and let your application learn a new language in 3 seconds.

**Averos** framework made specific workflows availables in order to achieve such a feat.
Let's go ahead and learn French!

#### **1- Add a new language support:**

Currently **averos** supports 11 languages out of the box.
In order to add a new language support to your application, **Averos** provides the following workflow command:

```bash
    ng g @wiforge/averos:add-language --languageCode=[language code]
```
<br/>

| **Supported Language** | **Language Code** |
| ------ | ------ | 
| Arabic     [ 🇹🇳 ] | `ar` |
| Chinese    [ 🇨🇳 ] | `cn` |
| English    [ 🇺🇸 ] | `en` |
| Spanish    [ 🇪🇸 ] | `es` |
| French     [ 🇫🇷 ] | `fr` |
| German     [ 🇩🇪 ] | `de` |
| Japanese   [ 🇯🇵 ] | `jp` |
| Dutch      [ 🇳🇱 ] | `nl` |
| Norwegian  [ 🇳🇴 ] | `no` |
| Russian    [ 🇷🇺 ] | `ru` |
| Swedish    [ 🇸🇪 ] | `se` |

<br/>
Let's learn French:

```bash
    ng g @wiforge/averos:add-language --languageCode=fr
```

By the end of the workflow execution, Your application will be able to speak french at a beginner level. It already knows all basic actions words like `create` or `search`.
{: .notice--info}


Let's improve your application vocabulary and learn new French words! 

#### **2- learn new vocabulary:**

Your application can learn new word related to its object echosystem.
From components and use cases to entities and members throughout view layouts, every thing can be learnt in a new language.

In order to let your application learn a new word, **Averos** provides the following workflow command:

```bash
    ng g @wiforge/averos:add-translation-entry --key=[your Word generic id] --value=[Your word in the target language] --lang=[the target language]
```

>🚩 **key** is described as the most natural, canonical word designation.
   averos uses the following convention in order to identify it's object echosystem:
   - **Entity**
     - the entity name is defined by it's class name in lowercase (ToDoTask ==> key = todotask)
     - entity members are defined by their names in lower case prefixed by their parent entity id (ex. ToDoTask.name ==> key = todotask.name)
   - **use cases**
     - **search use case**: 
     - **edit use case**:
     - **create use case**:
{: .notice--success}
